# common

Collection of miscellaneous routines that have proven useful in my [research project](https://github.com/Eli-mas/ResearchProject-RamPressure-EM-JK) or other work of mine.

Notable elements:
* `algo`: contains different subpackages for different general kinds of algorithms.
	- `algo.Heap`: numba/numpy implementation of heap routines. `Heap.py` provides generic heap functionality for heaps of primitive types (ints, floats, strings), and `ArrayHeap.py` allows for merging sorted arrays. Timings generated from `Heap_timing.py` show that `Heap` runs faster than Python's native `heapq` module for large arrays (custom Heap becomes quicker somewhere between array sizes of 10^5 and 10^6).
	- `algo.Graph`: intended to become a collection of general-purpose graph routines. At the moment the only member is the `array_group.ArrayGrouper` module, which provides functionality to label contiguous regions in an integer array (as done by scipy.ndimage.label), but also to use different structures for different values and generate a containment tree (not features that scipy supports -- see the class doc for an explanation). Note, although this module is functional, it is *much* slower than scipy's label routine, perhaps in part because of the extra work that is being done to track relationships between labeled groups.
	- `algo.Partition`: at the moment implements functionality to partition an array based on a provided value (rather than a particular value in the array), and uses this to provide a deterministic, in-place median-finding algorithm that runs in linear time on uniformly distributed data, worst-case quadratic time on exponentially distributed data. **TODO**: I would like to compare this implementation to a quick-select implementation to compare performance of each approach.
* `arrays`: array-related routines
	- `arrays.roll_wrap_funcs`: take rolling sums/means of arrays of any dimensionality along any dimension, with the ability to wrap around this array along this dimension (functionality may be added for obtaining rolling aggregations along multiple axes simultaneously), and allowing for applying weights while rolling.
	- `arrays.darray`: module providing a class that deforests computations on numpy arrays (removes creation of intermediate arrays in chained computations).
* `collections`: provides assorted simple but useful utilities for working with collections of objects. Also incorporates routines dealing with sorting. One module of interest is `ListView`, which provides view-like semantics into Python lists (prompted by, e.g., [NumPy's view semantics](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.indexing.html#basic-slicing-and-indexing)), avoiding copying data. Another script of interest is `SortedIterator`, which handles logic for performing set-like operations on sorted data; this is under development.
* decorators: decorators of interest. At the moment:
    - `parameter`: provides decorators for acting dynamically on a function's parameters when the function is called. In particular, this can be used for type verification, for which functionality is already provided via the `validate_parameter_types` decorator. Other functions exist for more general functionality: `operate_on_params_dynamically` allows for performing any operations on parameters when a function is called, which can be used e.g. to implement callbacks, and `modify_parameters_dynamically` can be used to modify the parameters and then pass the modified versions to the function in question. This is utilized in the `makeax` decorator, which allows for generating a matplotlib axis automatically when a function is called if one is not passed explicitly.
    - `wrap`: provides decorators for automated assignment of docstrings and other attributes to functions/class objects.
    - `getter`: allows for transforming class objects into dynamic getters, i.e. objects that support dynamically traversing through an implicitly specified tree of attribute calls while storing intermediate results from the call stack. See the [documentation](https://github.com/Eli-mas/common/blob/master/decorators/getter.py) for the module and the `Getter` decorator for details.
* `parallel`: at the moment contains a very simple class `threading.Queuer` for running a function in parallel across threads. 'threading' is not a good name choice for a module (collision with built-in), so at some point I will fix this.